5.1.1. Penetration Testing Deliverables
 
Rules of Engagement

https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/msrc/pentest-rules-of-engagement -- example of Microsofts ROE for their cloud


5.1.3. The General Structure of Penetration Testing Notes


A note-taking structure that starts broad and drills down into each section is an easy and expandable method of taking notes.

The top-down approach guides us to start with the broadest activity, and then narrow down our focus and expand the level of detail until we have everything we need to replicate exactly what happened.

 
Sublime
CherryTree
Obsidian

https://github.com/nil0x42/awesome-hacker-note-taking -- more note taking tools

Screenshots should only have one concept at a time. Captions should be short and to the point. It should explain the picture not the context

5.2. Writing Effective Technical Penetration Testing Reports

In this Learning Unit we'll cover the following Learning Objectives
Identify the purpose of a technical report
Understand how to specifically tailor content
Construct an Executive Summary
Account for specific test environment considerations
Create a technical summary
Describe technical findings and recommendations
Recognize when to use appendices, resources, and references

5.2.1

If you're going to present a problem, make sure you show a solution.

What are the goals of a pen test
1 the client to be presented with a path forward that outlines and highlights all the flaws that are currently present in their systems within the scope of the engagement
2 ways to fix those flaws in an immediate sense
3 strategic goals that will prevent those vulnerabilities from appearing in the future.
 
Understand your client's business goals and objectives

 

TLS 1.0 violates PCI. (Not a core concept, but interesting to note)

 

5.2.3. Executive Summary

 

start with outlining the scope of the engagement

Explain what was testing in scope. What was not?

Explain timing issues for things that may need to be tested in the future. Are they in scope?

Show time frame. What dates, and what time ranges.

Review ROE and a referee report. (I guess some tests have a referee to tell you whats allowed and whats not)

Review what was provided to help with testing. Test/throwaway accounts, Accounts created during pentest.

 

explain each step of the engagement

explain risk and worst case scenarios for each key finding

Do not over sell or undersell how bad something is.

 

Identify and show trends

Group findings with similar vulns

point out systemic failures (overall design or process is bad)

Explain the things the client has done well

 

5.2.4

Testing Environment Considerations

The first section of the full report should detail any issues that affected the testing. This is usually a fairly small section.

 

5.2.5. Technical Summary

 

User and Privilege Management

Architecture

Authorization

Patch Management

Integrity and Signatures

Authentication

Access Control

Audit, Log Management and Monitoring

Traffic and Data Encryption

 

 

Security Misconfigurations

 

